---
title: Biblical issues
slug: biblical-issues
excerpt: false
---

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DlSKdnjJ9xvNjqWMy9hjVhSb85NQK6W0rPJraBCph0Q/edit

Biblical Issues Pedicide, Infantice, and Feticide
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v6OZj2ALkFncnImLDhtM-qy8Ihk6aX0qqJS6QimE4Bs/edit?usp=sharing Mass Murder
and Terrorism https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o0NnPO-zyA5eSabEKK4MsKSl5lYojimVmYfKOkr2HFM/edit?usp=sharing
Violence and Oppression
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FNv93sbl5T2XEcpjnVfbE3dNfAXW2KuoEtqRaI2GYco/edit?usp=sharing "Sacrifices"
and Tributes https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aZSLGrS1k7cACjO_R0iKNG6sbEYLmdeYYFF7t6A-Dx0/edit?usp=sharing
Racism and Hatred
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l1Z3kIfy1malEn04r0IkAty1leE2TjwYvCN_HLLkCeI/edit?usp=sharing Mutilation
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-N9PKlF7Oi7ly4fLVtOwWJ287uFohIZq7eS2vVJtqKs/edit?usp=sharing Injustice
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1viQsztDKk3Dfc3wr23P8HppwWI3QXXp5xZTq2-D2ZH4/edit?usp=sharing Homophobia
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dm8XUVDtOEyvWnWRPtvBJLH3DETSCrpLXXCbURNmIaQ/edit?usp=sharing Slavery
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QZoRhsKu_SrKWKINm1Wm7d8tkntJBfcg63iAXaEtELw/edit?usp=sharing Sexism
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nodeRhKxe41WEoJYeYjugXjpmMZuERLjeeTI800Pvbs/edit?usp=sharing Bad
Parenting; Destruction of Family; Degradation of Love
https://docs.google.com/document/d/13nnXgw_rwFsuryjAcydK3N7k_iei8FdAbWPWwLg9R1g/edit?usp=sharing Elective
Exclusivity https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_-8yeZQX03UeIIr0B_zh5FuPsB_Ay69A7ZXO-UsrUsw/edit?usp=sharing
Exaltation of Belief
https://docs.google.com/document/d/187J2ds_23MnehZeTytrEMcOB5qQea4jjz8YBay0yJIM/edit?usp=sharing
Narcissism/Megalomania
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Iyyr10OyefvkBvFr3k6p79aw-WI3sBww9jeg_bvdIy0/edit?usp=sharing Lies and
Manipulation https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tWyDZMS5u8AetWrCk05L2kVbdYMRhC5hYZ4n8LIJz3U/edit?usp=sharing
Extortion https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FO6BV3MNtJiLISk5vu-cJLFb_WohgF63y25OAzWNp3w/edit?usp=sharing
Superstition https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RydOEbqiPO9P3KSLVFl0UptFk-_PAaRNfTWE-KplH9U/edit?usp=sharing
Good Stuff https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nGoJ7EO5I3ZE9YGZjx1NVtE5R43tUM8ooZzBQ8gDpUo/edit?usp=sharing
Related https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hj9oB4zpHww
https://americanhumanist.org/what-is-humanism/reasons-humanists-reject-bible/
