---
title: Exaltation of belief
slug: exaltation-of-belief
excerpt: false
---
https://docs.google.com/document/d/187J2ds_23MnehZeTytrEMcOB5qQea4jjz8YBay0yJIM/edit Exaltation of Belief 2
Kings 7: But Elisha said, “Hear the word of Yahweh: thus says Yahweh, Tomorrow about this time a seah of fine
flour shall be sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria.” Then the
captain on whose hand the king leaned said to the man of God, “If Yahweh himself should make windows in
heaven, could this thing be?” But he said, “You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it.”
… Then the people went out and plundered the camp of the Syrians. So a seah of fine flour was sold for a
shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, according to the word of Yahweh. Now the king had appointed the
captain on whose hand he leaned to have charge of the gate. And the people trampled him in the gate, so that
he died, as the prophet had said when the king came down to him. For when the prophet had said to the king,
“Two seahs of barley shall be sold for a shekel, and a seah of fine flour for a shekel, about this time
tomorrow in the gate of Samaria,” the captain had answered the man of God, “If Yahweh himself should make
windows in heaven, could such a thing be?” And he had said, “You shall see it with your own eyes, but you
shall not eat of it.” And so it happened to him, for the people trampled him in the gate and he died. 2 Kings
23 Psalms 14:1: The fool says in his heart, “There is no God.” They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds;
there is none who does good. Psalms 78 Mark 16:16: Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever
does not believe will be condemned. Matthew 10:32-33: So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will
acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven, but whoever denies me before men, I also will deny before my
Father who is in heaven. John 3:36: Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life; whoever does not obey the
Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. 2 Corinthians 4:4: In their case the god of this
world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory
of Christ, who is the image of God. 2 Corinthians 6:14-18: Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For
what partnership has righteousness with lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? ... Or what
portion does a believer share with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of Yahweh with idols? For we
are the temple of the living God; as Yahweh said, “I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and
I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from
them, says Yahweh, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you, and I will be a father to you, and you
shall be sons and daughters to me, says Yahweh Almighty.” Hebrews 3:12: Take care, brothers, lest there be in
any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God.
