---
title: LGBT
slug: lgbt
excerpt: false
---

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q3H2fAzcB_1BA7uqFJCfmEgPa27dwaTDsXBEo8U_C3U/edit#

LGBT … Understanding sex and gender Sex and gender Sex is a classification based on physical or structural
traits: the presence of male or female sexual and reproductive organs. Gender is a classification based on the
sum of psychological and sociobehavioral traits that are usually associated with one sex. The first lifeforms
to evolve on Earth—bacteria and archaea—had no sex and no gender: they reproduced asexually. The first
eukaryotic cells emerged through endosymbiosis around 1.5 billion years ago, and the first multicellular
organisms—algae and fungi—evolved by 1.2 billion years ago. These primitive multicellular organisms still had
no sex and no gender. The traits associated with sex and gender are products of evolution. Sex and gender are
determined by complex interactions of multiple genes, hormones, and environmental factors (epigenetics). The
traits associated with sex and gender are not tightly coupled; i.e., the genes that build male or female
reproductive organs are not inseparably connected to the genes that give a person “masculine” or “feminine”
instincts. In some cases, the complex genetics of sex and gender give rise to individuals who do not conform
to gender norms and who may or may not ever produce biological offspring: intersex, asexual, transgender,
homosexual, bisexual, and other non-normative individuals—the LGBTQ community. Sex and gender nonconformities,
including homosexuality and transgenderism, occur not only among humans but among many—if not all—sexually
dipolar species throughout the animal kingdom.

Approximately 1.7% of humans born throughout the world are intersex, meaning that there is ambiguity in the
human’s sex based on “chromosomes, gonads, sex hormones, or genitals.” For example, XX individuals can have
male gonads, and XY individuals can have ovaries.

Studies have demonstrated that transgenderism has a genetic basis. The brains of transgender people have
structural characteristics that are more similar to the brains of members of the opposite sex than to members
of their own sex. As a result, they feel like, identify as, and behave like members of the other sex. In
short, science has revealed unambiguously that sex and gender are not binary traits and that transgenderism,
homosexuality, etc. are natural phenomena (albeit “queer”). Understanding homophobia and transphobia For
cultural reasons, many gender-normative people view homosexual and transgender people with some degree of
fear, suspicion, discomfort, and/or disgust. Homophobia and transphobia are dislike of, fear of, aversion to,
or prejudice against homosexual people and transsexual or transgender people, respectively. Like racist
sentiments have historically had negative outcomes for people of racial minorities, homophobic and transphobic
sentiments have historically had negative outcomes for LGBT people and their families. As small and
little-understood minorities, homosexual and transgender people have been oppressed, persecuted, bullied,
beaten and abused, discriminated against, driven to suicide, and/or murdered. Heuristics and cognitive errors
Common sense is nothing more than a deposit of prejudices laid down in the mind before you reach eighteen. —
Albert Einstein The idea that non-normative sexual orientations and gender identities are “unnatural” stems
from the gender binary—the classification of gender into two opposite, disconnected forms. According to the
binary model, sex and gender should be simple: people who were born with a penis are male, and people who are
born with a vagina are female. Men should be masculine and attracted to women, while women should be feminine
and attracted to men.

In 1921, Ralph Werther wrote, … There exists indeed a sex scale along which all human beings can be
theoretically arranged. At one pole stands the tremendously virile man—for example, the rough volunteer common
soldier, as a rule intensely polygamous; at the other the petite, cry-baby species of woman. Androgynes and
gynanders occupy exactly the middle section, looking toward both the male and the female side. Religious
fundamentalism Adam and Eve. Why not go to the root of the matter and take revenge on Nature, instead of her
irresponsible [blameless] and pitiable step-children? Nature alone is to blame for the existence of sexual
cripples. Why not marshal every son and daughter of Adam [every human being] for the work of honeycombing the
entire crust of the earth with galleries to be filled with dynamite? And then set off the world-wide charge
simultaneously so as to destroy all terrestrial Nature at one coup, humanity included. This would constitute
man’s sole logical vengeance on bisexuality. But man is truly a passional, rather than a rational, being.
Genesis 19:1-8: The two angels came to S’dom that evening, when Lot was sitting at the gate of S’dom. Lot saw
them, got up to greet them and prostrated himself on the ground. He said, “Here now, my lords, please come
over to your servant’s house. Spend the night, wash your feet, get up early, and go on your way.” … so they
went home with him; and he made them a meal, baking matzah for their supper, which they ate. But before they
could go to bed, the men of the city surrounded the house — young and old, everyone from every neighborhood of
S’dom. They called Lot and said to him, “Where are the men who came to stay with you tonight? Bring them out
to us! We want to have sex with them!” Lot went out to them and stood in the doorway, closing the door behind
him, and said, “Please, my brothers, don’t do such a wicked thing. Look here, I have two daughters who are
virgins. Please, let me bring them out to you, and you can do with them what seems good to you; but don’t do
anything to these men, since they are guests in my house.” What are the odds that every man in Sodom (1) was
homosexual and (2) became aware that two hot angels were staying in a certain house and decided to gang-rape
them? This narrative, like many others in the Bible (e.g., the Adam-and-Eve myth, the flood myth, the
Tower-of-Babel myth, etc.) is mythical. The myth was created by homophobic leaders of the ancient Hebrews.
Leviticus 20:13: If a man goes to bed with a man as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination;
they must be put to death; their blood is on them. The writers of the Bible did not understand homosexuality,
just as they did not understand menstruation, the origin of life on Earth, and many other things.
Homosexuality is natural (influenced by epigenetics); sexual orientation is generally not a choice. The text
of Leviticus is uninspired to say the least. To say more, it is bigoted and homicidal, like other texts of
primitive religious peoples. Romans 1: What is revealed is Yahweh’s anger from heaven against all the
godlessness and wickedness of people who in their wickedness keep suppressing the truth; because what is known
about Yahweh is plain to them, since Yahweh has made it plain to them. For ever since the creation of the
universe his invisible qualities — both his eternal power and his divine nature — have been clearly seen,
because they can be understood from what he has made. Therefore, they have no excuse; because, although they
know who Yahweh is, they do not glorify him as God or thank him…. This is why Yahweh has given them up to the
vileness of their hearts’ lusts, to the shameful misuse of each other’s bodies. They have exchanged the truth
of God for falsehood, by worshipping and serving created things, rather than the Creator — praised be he for
ever…. This is why Yahweh has given them up to degrading passions; so that their women exchange natural sexual
relations for unnatural; and likewise the men, giving up natural relations with the opposite sex, burn with
passion for one another, men committing shameful acts with other men and receiving in their own persons the
penalty appropriate to their perversion…. They are filled with every kind of wickedness, evil, greed and vice;
stuffed with jealousy, murder, quarrelling, dishonesty and ill-will; they are gossips, slanderers, haters of
Yahweh; they are insolent, arrogant and boastful; they plan evil schemes; they disobey their parents; they are
brainless, faithless, heartless and ruthless. They know well enough Yahweh’s righteous decree that people who
do such things deserve to die; yet not only do they keep doing them, but they applaud others who do the same.
Yahweh is angry with unbelievers; Yahweh’s invisible qualities are clearly visible to and known by everyone,
therefore nobody has any excuse for not believing in Yahweh; those whose religious beliefs conflict with “the
truth of God” espoused by Paul are abandoned by Yahweh and therefore become mindless, evil homosexuals; etc.
This passage reflects the ignorant prejudices and hateful fanaticism of a small, unscientific man—not the
wisdom and love of an omniscient, benevolent god. The author of this passage references Yahweh’s “righteous
decree that people who do such things” (e.g., disobeying parents or being in a homosexual relationship)
“deserve to die.” This seems to be a reference to the Talmud. Is it righteous for Yahweh to decree that
homosexuals deserve to die? Can we doubt that in the absence of the rule of secular law and organized parties
of dissenters, modern believers would enforce the biblical decree? Note that in the Middle East, people still
can and do kill for their god (the god of Abraham) and his righteous decrees. Many consider the idea that
people of the same sex could be romantically attracted to one another to be unnatural and wrong. Similarly,
many consider the idea that one’s “gender identity” could differ from one’s sex at birth to be absurd and
discomforting. “Unthinking respect for authority is the greatest enemy of truth.” — Albert Einstein Martin
Luther said that homosexuality comes from the Devil. Plass, Ewald Martin, What Luther Says: An Anthology,
Volume 1, 1959. p. 134: The vice of the Sodomites is an unparalleled enormity. It departs from the natural
passion and desire, planted into nature by God, according to which the male has a passionate desire for the
female. Sodomy craves what is entirely contrary to nature. Whence comes this perversion? Without a doubt it
comes from the devil. After a man has once turned aside from the fear of God, the devil puts such great
pressure upon his nature that he extinguishes the fire of natural desire and stirs up another, which is
contrary to nature. A lifelong critic of religion’s capacity to corrupt the human spirit, Mark Twain writes:
In my schoolboy days I had no aversion to slavery. I was not aware that there was anything wrong about it. No
one arraigned it in my hearing; the local papers said nothing against it; the local pulpit taught us that God
approved it, that it was a holy thing, and that the doubter need only look in the Bible if he wished to settle
his mind—and then the texts were read aloud to us to make the matter sure; if the slaves themselves had an
aversion to slavery they were wise and said nothing. “He who passively accepts evil is as much involved in it
as he who helps to perpetrate it. He who accepts evil without protesting against it is really cooperating with
it.” Ralph Werther wrote, … Some great religious leaders have been anaphrodites [asexual]. St. Paul, in his
epistles, shows little patience even with normal sex phenomena. He advises that every man imitate his own
absolute celibacy. “But if they can not contain, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to burn [to
lust].” It is impossible for the tremendously or the ultra-sexed to live up to the sexual ideals of an
anaphrodite. And yet St. Paul’s epistles bind them upon Christians…. St. Paul’s sex teachings constitute the
greatest stumbling block of the church. They have caused the human race a world of woe. Belief in St. Paul’s
inerrancy makes it impossible to reconcile Christian ethics with the incontrovertible teachings of Nature…. I
must, particularly because of [St. Paul’s epistles’] false sex doctrines, deny their inerrancy…. Fear,
disgust, and bigotry “The soft-minded man always fears change. He feels security in the status quo, and he has
an almost morbid fear of the new. For him, the greatest pain is the pain of a new idea.” — Martin Luther King,
Jr.

Ralph Werther: Instinctive female-impersonators are sexual cripples from their mother’s womb. They had no
choice in the matter. Thus they merit pity rather than scorn…. Conservative scaremongering Throughout human
history, religious conservatives have been willing to formulate, believe, and promote lies and falsehoods in
order to condemn, victimize, or avoid listening to those with whom they did not identify. Reproduction of
anti-transgender memes is facilitated by misunderstandings and prejudices that are remarkably similar to those
that impeded the abolition and civil rights movements of the 19th and 20th centuries. In the 19th century,
conservative influencers taught that black people were descendants of Cain and of Canaan. That made it easy
for them to justify the status quo: slavery. Throughout the 1960s, conservative influencers promoted the
falsehood that the civil rights movement was a communist conspiracy to overthrow state governments. In the
20th and 21st centuries, conservative influencers formulated numerous conspiracy theories to deny scientific
facts—including organic evolution and climate change—and to demonize and discredit scientists. In the 21st
century, conservative influencers promoted falsehoods and conspiracy theories to defame and discredit Barack
Obama (America’s first colored president); members of his administration (e.g., Michelle Obama, Van Jones,
John Holdren); and initiatives of his administration (e.g., healthcare reform). Ralph Werther wrote, …
Androgynes tend to occupations having to do with art—in the widest sense of that word. They are extreme
aesthetes. I quote from Edward Carpenter’s Love’s Coming-of-Age (published by Boni and Liveright) page 135,
where he speaks of male urnings, called by myself “androgynes”: “At the bottom lies the artist-nature, with
the artist’s sensibility and perception. Such a one is often a dreamer, of brooding reserved habits, often a
musician, or a man of culture, … almost always with a peculiar inborn refinement. De Joux … says … : ‘They are
enthusiastic for poetry and music, are often eminently skillful in the fine arts, and are overcome with
emotion and sympathy at the least sad occurrence…. The nerve system of many an urning is the finest and the
most complicated musical instrument in the service of the interior personality that can be imagined.’” … In my
university course in aesthetics, the professor lamented that art tends to make its devotees immoral. He
probably had in mind the notorious frequency of homosexuality among aesthetes. But he got the cart before the
horse. The aesthetes affected were born bisexual and their devotion to art was a consequence. … Ralph Werther
wrote, I take no stock in the theory advanced by some medical writers that androgynism (generally termed male
sexual inversion) is acquired and not congenital. The exceptional method of sexual expression can be acquired
only by individuals congenitally on the very borderline between androgynes on the one hand and anaphrodites or
mildly virile on the other. The latest proponent of the “acquired” theory, Dr. P. M. Lichtenstein, ...
suggests that masturbation in boyhood may produce in adulthood a fairie [homosexual] or ultra-androgyne. In my
physical prime, I was a fairie of extreme type. I never masturbated as a child or as an adult because of acute
horror. My own pudenda never had any part in my sexual ardor—any more than my vermiform appendix. ... Ralph
Werther wrote, It is quasi-instinctive with each sex class to scorn members of another class just because they
happen to be built on a different plan. It is the same phenomenon prevalent in the religious domain in past
centuries, when the Roman Catholic yearned to murder the Protestant and vice versa—which intolerance the
gradual conquest of human affairs by reason is pushing further and further into the background. But still in
the twentieth century, reason is a nonentity in the domain of sex. There, all is illogical instinct and
bigotry. Each sex class still revels in calling the others bad names. The tremendously virile “fellow” bellows
out at the mildly: “You milk-sop!” The latter call back: “You rake!” The ultra-virile hisses through his teeth
at the anaphrodite: “You dried tree!” The mildly virile points his finger at the androgyne: “Unclean! Unclean!
Child of the devil! Monster!” … Is it right to chastise a horse because he prefers to munch hay out of a
manger instead of walking into his owner’s dining-room; throwing himself backwards into an enormous chair;
squeezing with difficulty a spoon between his two front hooves; and with it carrying to his mouth ice-cream
and French pastry? The average man … says that the latter is, for every creature, the superior method of
taking nourishment, and insists on all others conforming to what is right in his own eyes. If they do not, he
ostracizes and even imprisons and murders those who dare to offend his aesthetic sense. … Ralph Werther wrote,
Twentieth-century psychologists are coming around to the view that even the leaders of thought are governed by
instinct and mores rather than reason…. Still today—as in the generation of Roger Bacon (13th
century)—conservatives yearn to imprison, or even burn at the stake, those in whom a purer reason than their
own operates. … [Like] Roger Bacon, I may comfort myself with the thought that my views are centuries in
advance of my time; but, like him, I am therefore bitterly persecuted. “Away with anyone who attempts to bring
out the truth about sex!” cry the conservatives. “Crucify him! Crucify him! Sex is a theme too disgusting for
discussion!” … Ralph Werther wrote, In the seventeenth century, when a cyclone demolished a hamlet or an
epidemic broke out, a council of physicians, lawyers, and clergymen was called to determine which semi-bearded
old hag had wished the catastrophe upon the community. After prayer for divine guidance and an exhortation by
a parson that the Bible taught that witches ought to be ferreted out, the high-brows would seek to determine
which of the several bags of bone known to all of them presented the most loathsome appearance, and who should
therefore be burned at the stake as the witch responsible for the catastrophe—as the necessary human sacrifice
to appease the anger of the Unseen Powers. For even down to the twentieth century there survives in
Christendom the pagan superstition of the necessity of a human sacrifice now and then. But in the twentieth
century, leaders of thought have evolved from the belief in witchcraft. They must look elsewhere than to
semi-bearded hags for their sacrificial victims on whom to load the sins of mankind, and the blame for the
decline and fall of nations. Since, next to hags, they consider sexual cripples as the most loathsome of
humans, they make the latter the scapegoats of present-day society. While they no longer burn them at the
stake or bury them alive (as provided in old European law), they are permitted by twentieth-century statutes
to imprison inoffensive androgynes for twenty years…. Instead of imprisonment, public opinion has generally
substituted banishment of the disclosed androgyne forever from all he loves…. Why are androgynes so hated?
Primarily because the leaders of thought have always identified them with the men of ancient Sodom ... and
historians have mistakenly (because they never met androgynes personally and were taught in their boyhood to
hate them with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength) laid upon them all the blame for the decline and
fall of nations, and declared that therefore effeminacy or androgynism is a type of moral depravity to be
crushed mercilessly. Better that some thousands of androgynes be deprived of life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness than that the general welfare of the nation be imperilled! … I answer: In the first place, such
imperilment is only a figment of the imagination…. In the second place, androgynism is not moral depravity or
degeneracy. I myself—an extreme type of androgyne—spring from the most puritan stock. I was brought up to
consider that on Sunday, reading anything but Christian doctrine or walking a hundred feet for mere pleasure
were heinous sins…. It is not necessary to crush androgynes in order to guard against the spread of
effeminacy. Effeminacy, in the sense of androgynism, does not spread by example. It is entirely congenital.
Only a physical male born with quasi-feminine predilections would adopt the role of a female after becoming
[an] adult. An androgyne’s predilections and practices are regarded with such repugnance ... that none would
stoop to them unless constrained by instinct. Reactionaries continue to use religious dogma and/or
pseudoscience to justify cruelty and discrimination, especially against trans people, but they are on the
wrong side of history.

Denialism and pseudoscience “Rarely do we find men who willingly engage in hard, solid thinking. There is an
almost universal quest for easy answers and half-baked solutions….” — Martin Luther King, Jr. Many believe
that the binary model of gender is confirmed by scientific facts: an XX chromosome pair makes a woman, an XY
chromosome pair makes a man, and sexual reproduction among many animals—including humans—requires the
fertilization of an egg (a female gamete) by a sperm (a male gamete). Those who assert that the gender binary
is a scientific fact—or that transgenderism is unnatural—become complicit in “the big lie”: by treating a
known falsehood as if it were self-evidently true, they sway others to uncritically accept the falsehood
rather than questioning or ignoring it. As early as 1921, Ralph Werther wrote, Only bigoted pseudo-scientists
have pronounced androgynes degenerates. Only medieval medicine, not modern medicine. Androgynism is merely an
instance of arrested development; or possibly of atavism—an attempt on the part of Nature to return to the
original hermaphroditism of man’s early antecedents. The androgyne who follows the dictates of Nature is not a
whit more degenerate than the full-fledged man who marries. It is only the fallible mores which make the
full-fledged think that a person with apparently male pudenda who impersonates a female is infinitely below
themselves morally. Were Socrates, Plato, Angelo, Raphael, and Francis Bacon monsters of depravity? Ought the
Shakespeare-Author to have been buried alive by his hare-brained fellow citizens before he had a chance to pen
a line? The chief charge against androgynes is that they are guilty of “the awful crime of race suicide.” But
it is the fault of Nature alone that the ultra-androgyne is incapable of doing his part in the perpetuation of
the race…. The cultured androgyne is a desirable citizen and a desirable member of any circle. While
ultra-androgynism makes its victims physically weak—like a woman—it has no deteriorating affect morally or
mentally. The usual charge of gross immorality is merely a relic of medieval bigotry. It matters not, however,
that androgynes are absolutely innocuous practically and ethically. Do they not offend the aesthetic sense of
the majority of mankind? What better cause for grinding them under one’s heel? Understanding the LGBT rights
movement Every gay and lesbian person who has been lucky enough to survive the turmoil of growing up is a
survivor. Survivors always have an obligation to those who will face the same challenges. — Bob Paris,
Straight from the Heart, 1995 Human progress is neither automatic nor inevitable... Every step toward the goal
of justice requires sacrifice, suffering, and struggle; the tireless exertions and passionate concern of
dedicated individuals. — Martin Luther King, Jr. I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have
the final word in reality. This is why right, temporarily defeated, is stronger than evil triumphant. — Martin
Luther King, Jr., Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech, 1964 The LGBT rights movement is gradually improving
the situation of LGBT people, but all is not yet well. Even in relatively civilized nations like the United
Kingdom and the United States, trans people are at risk of being evicted from their homes, fired from their
jobs, harassed, beaten, and killed by transphobes. In the 1920s, Jenny June, a self-described androgyne, wrote
a three-volume autobiography to shed light on the plight of homosexuals and transgender people in the United
States. At the beginning of the second volume, The Female-Impersonators, she explained her motive: My motive
was humanitarian. My aim was to save thousands of innocent stepchildren of Nature from an aggregate of tens of
thousands of years in prison, and bring about a repeal of the laws under which they are incarcerated and which
are still in the codes because civilized man has not yet entirely emerged from the prejudice and superstition
of the Dark Ages. My second aim was to put a stop to the continuous string of murders of these stepchildren,
the assassins laboring under the delusion that homosexuality is due to deepest moral depravity, and feeling
that they are mandatories of society in ridding the world of these “monsters.” My third aim was to save
hundreds of these superlatively melancholy sexual intermediates from suicide as the result of bitter
persecution by those who pride themselves on the fact that in their own case, sex has been thoroughly
differentiated. ... [To] accomplish my three aims, it is necessary that the general reader have instilled into
his mind that sexual intermediates are not to blame for their cross-sex idiosyncrasies. Such knowledge could
not besmirch the soul of the general reader, but only benefit him morally. … My God-given mission is to be one
of the first to cry: “Child of English culture, reflect a moment, and ask yourself whether you are at last, in
this the most enlightened century of man’s existence, willing to grant justice and humane treatment to the
androgyne and gynander? Do you still insist that these sexual cripples continue to suffer physical and mental
torture for another century because your own pleasure bulks too large for you to hear and bear the truth about
the despairing cross-sexed?” … Reader, what would have been your own attitude on this question if God had
created you, or your son or daughter, a sexual intermediate, instead of some stranger about whose banishment,
suicide, or murder you have read in the paper? Would you have driven the ill-starred son or daughter from
home, and henceforth treated them as dead? Or would you, when their dead body was fished out of the river, be
able to feel pity as did a father I read about in a New York paper, who exclaimed at [the] sight of it: “Poor
Jimmie! How you must have suffered!” Over time, human morality has evolved, and tolerance for violence,
cruelty, and discrimination has decreased. The trans rights movement is a part of the larger progressive
movement away from violence, cruelty, and discrimination. Harvey Milk, the first openly gay man elected to
public office in the United States, was murdered. Before his assassination, he recorded a tape to be played if
he was assassinated. In it, he said, “If a bullet should enter my brain, let that bullet destroy every closet
door.” Like racism and all forms of prejudice, bigotry against transgender people is a deadly carcinogen. We
are pitted against each other in order to keep us from seeing each other as allies. Genuine bonds of
solidarity can be forged between people who respect each other's differences and are willing to fight their
enemy together. We are the class that does the work of the world, and can revolutionize it. We can win true
liberation. — Leslie Feinberg, Transgender Liberation: A Movement Whose Time Has Come, 1992

Protection from violence … “It may be true that the law cannot make a man love me, but it can keep him from
lynching me, and I think that’s pretty important.” — Martin Luther King, Jr. Protection from discrimination
https://archive.org/details/femaleimpersonat00wert/page/158 … “Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in
health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” Marriage … https://youtu.be/5d667Bb_iYA Children
https://archive.org/details/femaleimpersonat00wert/page/n73 … From the age of thirteen to eighteen, I endured
an almost companionless existence outside the home, the schoolroom outside the home, the schoolroom, and the
church edifice. I did occasionally take a walk with an androgyne of my own age, goody-goodiness, education,
and social standing. He, however, was not religious or of puritan parentage, and was even then extensively
promiscuous with the economically better class of the village’s youthful “sports.” I myself turned away in
deep shame from the propositions of tremendously virile youths, although secretly I would rather have yielded
than do anything else at all. At middle life, I have had doubts as to whether I did the right thing in
resisting. I believe my health and happiness were tremendously impaired by my ultra-puritan views which made
me obstinate before Nature’s behests. On the other hand, through yielding I would have lost my reputation and
probably been barred from “prep” and university…. … From the age of thirteen to eighteen, I endured the most
melancholy existence I have ever heard or read of. Can the reader conjure up any worse fate for a youth than
to make the startling discovery that he, though extremely conscientious and offenceless, is a type of sexual
cripple that has always been regarded by the sexually full-fledged—because of their ignorance and
Phariseeism—as the lowest of the low, a monster of wickedness, and an outcast from society? Can the reader
conjure up any worse fate for a girl—and a very high-strung one—than for Nature to disguise her as a boy, and
foreordain that she should be brought up as a boy and be, at school, office, etc., always shut up with the
sterner sex? Can the reader conjure up any worse fate for a girl than to be doomed to pass through life
incarnated in a male body? How grief-provoking for a mademoiselle to be cursed with a slight growth of hair on
lip or cheeks! Only a trifling male stigma! How much more heart-rending for a mademoiselle to possess the male
physique to such an extent that even all physicians (except a handful of sexologists) with their present lack
of knowledge—or rather their closing their eyes to all evidence—would declare her a male, and prescribe that
she should in life fill the latter role. Such was my chronic burden almost throughout my teens…. And such is
the burden imposed by Nature on one youth out of every three hundred in every social set of every country in
the world. But because of my intellectuality, high-class environment, and extreme androgynism, my grief was
exceptionally intense…. My chronic lamentation during my seventeenth to nineteenth years was: “Miserable
wretch! Miserable wretch! Miserable wretch! That’s all I am! I was born with a deformed nature, despicable in
the eyes of all people! I am a soft effeminate youth who is wanted nowhere! I am ashamed to look any one in
the face! I feel like putting an end to my life, or else losing myself, to all who know who I am, in a distant
city where I could live according to my queer nature. I have nothing to live for! I may be disgraced, disgrace
my family, be compelled to flee, be disowned by my parents, be cursed and be despised throughout the land!” …
After an hour of bitter tears and heart-broken pleadings to the Architect of the universe, I would be in a
state of mental and physical collapse for twenty-four hours. Can the read wonder that, weighed down by such a
burden, I repeated meditated suicide during these four terrible years? And I realize now—at middle age—that I
had to suffer these four years of melancholia only because of cultured man’s misunderstanding of androgynism,
prohibition of anyone’s inquiring into the facts, and bitter persecution of androgynes. … Bathrooms ...
Opposition TERFs Gender-critical feminists, aka trans-exclusionary radical feminists (TERFs), are a feminist
minority characterized by hostility toward trans people. TERFs do not believe that trans people have a gender
identity that is different from their gonadal sex at birth; they believe that trans women are dangerous,
misogynistic men who seek to invade women’s spaces and take advantage of “real women.” Like racists, TERFs
attempt to validate their prejudices by pretending that science is on their side: they say, “Biology isn’t
bigotry,” while necessarily ignoring actual science (which invalidates their beliefs). TERFs have been known
to employ hate speech and violence against trans people. According to a 2010 statement by a prominent TERF
named Bev Von Dohre, “They [trans people] expect we’ll be shocked to see statistics about them being killed,
and don’t realize, some of us wish they would ALL be dead.”
https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/intelligence-report/2010/18-anti-gay-groups-and-their-propaganda What
to do? “Every man must decide whether he will walk in the light of creative altruism or in the darkness of
destructive selfishness.” Care for children In some cases, it can be best to wait to transition, but in other
cases…….. On the other hand, ... ALICE WALKER // NOVELIST, ESSAYIST, AND ACTIVIST

MARK SAGLIOCCO/GETTY IMAGES "Please remember, especially in these times of group-think and the right-on
chorus, that no person is your friend (or kin) who demands your silence, or denies your right to grow and be
perceived as fully blossomed as you were intended." —from In Search of Our Mothers' Gardens: Womanist Prose,
1983 Support LGBT people Transgender people can thrive when they are supported. I beg all adults, particularly
school officials, to be extraordinarily charitable and sympathetic with girl-boys and others sexually abnormal
by birth who may seem to have lost their senses. Guard against doing anything that would lead the disgraced to
commit suicide, which event is fairly common among these “stepchildren of nature.” Support LGBT rights
legislation Trangender rights legislation is complicated…. Overcome homophobia and transphobia We should
discourage hate speech. Hate speech—language that “denigrates a person or persons on the basis of (alleged)
membership in a social group identified by attributes such as race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation,
religion, age, physical or mental disability, and others”—is not only psychologically harmful to its targets;
it predictably leads to bodily violence and other forms of persecution against its targets.
