---
title: Evolution
slug: evolution
excerpt: false
---

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VKb6haX_rhp4cvKkR-wInbo__eHpzX0nwPmZU5AaYEE/edit

Evolution https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/15-answers-to-creationist/

Questions answered by evolution If someone grows up being taught that evolution is controversial, atheistic,
and not supported by legitimate evidence, that person would tend to be skeptical of evolution. What has led
you to be skeptical of evolution?

The fossil record of life on Earth begins 4 billion years ago with microfossils made by the earliest
unicellular organisms. There is a very clear chronological progression in the fossil record from unicellular
lifeforms to the most advanced lifeforms that we see on Earth today: unicellular organisms --> primitive
multicellular organisms (sponges and cnidarians) --> flatworm predecessors --> flatworms --> worm-fish
intermediates --> fish --> fish-amphibian intermediates --> amphibians --> reptiles --> reptile-mammal
intermediates --> mammals, and so on. Why does the fossil record of life have a perfect chronological
progression? Why are there no anachronistic fossils (which might so easily disprove evolution)? Why does the
fossil record contain transitional fossils that bridge the gaps between the families of life we see on Earth
today?

Evolution for evolution comes from paleontology (fossils), comparative anatomy (vestigial structures,
atavisms, etc.), genetics (DNA), biogeography, direct observation (of speciation), and more (see “Evidence of
common descent” on Wikipedia). Why does evidence of evolution exist? Should evidence of evolution exist if
evolution is not real?

Since 1884, at least 23 human babies have been born with tails about 12cm long. See
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_vestigiality. Why do humans have a tailbone? Why are some human babies
born with tails?

Why do humans have wisdom teeth?

Why did dinosaurs exist on Earth?

Why are whales and dolphins mammals, and why do they have vestigial hind limbs?

As the evidence for evolution mounted throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, many Christian churches,
including the Catholic church, transitioned away from anti-evolution. The 1950 encyclical Humani generis
advocated scepticism towards evolution without explicitly rejecting it. Then, in 1996, this was substantially
amended by Pope John-Paul II when he said, "Today, almost half a century after publication of the encyclical,
new knowledge has led to the recognition of the theory of evolution as more than a hypothesis." Why did the
Catholic church stop preaching against evolution? Note: Some Christian organizations never stopped taking a
stance on evolution, despite the scientific consensus that evolution is a fact. 100% of the anti-evolution
pseudoscience that I have encountered has come from Christian fundamentalists who insist upon biblical
literalism.

The LDS church opposed evolution during the 19th and 20th centuries while evidence for evolution was
accumulating, but by the late 20th century, the church toned down the anti-evolution rhetoric and stopped
taking an official position on evolution. Why did the LDS church stop taking a position on evolution? Does the
LDS church not take a position on evolution anymore because it is “a matter of faith”? One example of
something that is a matter of faith is acceptance of the Atonement of Jesus Christ. Would the church stop
taking a position on the Atonement of Jesus Christ because it is a matter of faith? Does the LDS church not
take a position on evolution anymore because evolution was sufficiently established as a scientific fact?

Evolution is accepted by 97% of the scientific community. The “scientific community” is composed of people who
study and have expertise in 1+ natural/physical sciences. Why do scientists (except the 3% who are biblical
literalists) universally accept evolution?

The assertions of science are vulnerable to disproof. They are falsifiable. This is the case with evolution:
if evolution were not real, it could easily be disproved by a single anachronistic fossil, by a demonstration
of immutability of species, by examples of new species suddenly appearing through acts of creation rather than
through divergence from an evolutionary progenitor, etc... When scientific theories are vulnerable to disproof
but withstand the test of time, are consistently corroborated by additional evidence, perfectly explain our
observations, demonstrate reliable predictive power, etc., they achieve the status of fact. Evolution achieved
the status of fact by the late 20th century; see Stephen Jay Gould, “Evolution as Fact and Theory,” May 1981.
Why is evolution accepted as a fact by scientists and educated people, including church members?

Evolution is now taught at BYU. If evolution is questionable (i.e., is not sound science) and/or is contrary
to church teachings, why does BYU teach evolution?

Skepticism toward evolution generally stems from biblical literalism, which generally stems from a
fundamentalist religious upbringing. The Bible contains a number of teachings that clearly make biblical
literalism a problematic approach to the world. For instance, it teaches that witches are real and should be
put to death. So what did misguided biblical literalists do? The Bible also supports the flat-Earth
conception. (The ancient Israelites believe the Earth was flat and was covered by the dome of heaven, from
which God looked down on everything.) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_flat_Earth_societies
https://www.biblestudytools.com/topical-verses/bible-verses-about-flat-earth/ Modern scientists agree 100%
that the Earth is round, but only 85% of the American public agrees that the Earth is round (meaning that
around 15% of Americans believe the Earth is flat). What do you think about people who refuse to accept the
evidence that the Earth is spherical? What kind of people are they? Is their mindset beneficial? Is the Earth
round, or is it flat? How do you know?

Science has revealed that the Sun (described by Genesis as “the light”) is a star, and Earth is a planet;
stars and planets form through natural processes over long periods of time; Earth has been around for 4.54
billion years; humans are a product of millions and billions of years of organic evolution; reproduction and
death have been happening nonstop ever since life emerged on Earth 4 billion years ago; and humans were
living, wearing clothes, making war, making love (and babies), dying, etc. more than 100,000 years ago.
However, the Bible indicates that the Earth was created 6000 years ago; the human species began with one man
(Adam) and one woman (Eve); the first man was created from dust; the first woman was created from one of the
first man’s ribs; there was no clothing, birth, or death in the world until after the first woman was tricked
by a snake into eating a delicious-looking fruit; and all of humankind emerged from the incestual relations of
the children of the two first humans. How should these be reconciled? Should the Genesis narrative be
interpreted literally? If so, should everything else in the Bible be interpreted literally? Resources (Video;
I recommend 1.25x speed) Steven L. Peck, “Why Evolution and LDS Thought are Fully Compatible: Overcoming our
Suspicions of Science,” speech delivered at Science & Mormonism, 9 Nov. 2013, in Provo, Utah). Michael F.
Whiting, “Evolution and the Gospel: Seeking Grandeur in This View of Life,” in Converging Paths to Truth, ed.
Michael D. Rhodes and J. Ward Moody [Provo, UT: Religious Studies Center, Brigham Young University; Salt Lake
City: Deseret Book, Salt Lake City, 2011], pp. 151–168. What Is the Evidence for Evolution Found in the Fossil
Record? (1.5 hrs, well worth it) Here are several examples of evolution/speciation occurring within human
lifetimes: “Rapid Evolution” (20 min)

Rebuttals “Yes, Intelligent Design Is Detectable by Science”

Here is a summary: When we encounter complex, organized, non-organic things, it’s natural for us to assume
that they were designed. Creatures, and the cells of which they are composed, similarly seem to have been
designed—because they are amazingly complex. DNA is really complex, too; where did all the info come from?
Therefore, it’s hand-designed by God.

This is an example of inference-observation confusion. Stephen does not present evidence for creation, and he
does not present evidence against evolution. He ignores the evidence altogether and iterates the argument of
irreducible complexity, which has been refuted and holds no weight in the scientific community.

“Yet there is now compelling evidence of intelligent design in the inner recesses of even the simplest living
one-celled organisms. Moreover, there is a key feature of living cells — one that makes the intelligent design
of life detectable — that Darwin didn’t know about and that contemporary evolutionary theorists have not
explained away.”

He’s talking about DNA. He says, essentially, that DNA is complex; therefore, it must have been hand-crafted
by someone. This is, again, the argument of irreducible complexity. Actually, DNA is very powerful evidence of
evolution. See, for example, “3 Ways Your DNA Proves Evolution Is Real” by Joe Hanson. Joe Hanson received his
PhD in Cell and Molecular Biology from the University of Texas at Austin. He runs the YouTube channel, “It’s
OK To Be Smart,” which has many good educational videos. Chemist James Tour Is Scathing, Hilarious: “Show Me
the Chemistry” of Abiogenesis. “It’s Not There.” James begins with an argument from authority. He appeals
strongly to his background as a “real scientist” to say that everything he says can be trusted—that all of his
claims would be passable in a medical conference, etc. He is not speaking at a legitimate scientific
conference, though—and his views are unrepresentative of most scientists. His fallacious arguments would not
be welcomed at a legitimate scientific conference. James says that when we talk about the origin of life, we
have to start with complex eukaryotic cells. Life did not begin with eukaryotic cells, though. NOBODY says
that life began with eukaryotic cells; it’s a straw man. At 8:24, James jumps into an aggressive, religiously
motivated attack on abiogenesis. He uses big words and complex red herrings to confuse/wow his audience, but
his argument boils down to an argument from ignorance: we don’t know X, therefore Y is false and Z is true.
Throughout the rest of his talk, he goes on many irrelevant tangents and repeats “How does .... do ...? Nobody
knows!” There are lots of things that we do not know. There are also lots of things that we do know, and he
ignores those things because they don’t support his attack on abiogenesis. Science is a learning process;
ignoring the things that we have learned is disingenuous. James yells about how anyone that claims humans have
created simple lifeforms is a LIAR! Proponents of evolution/abiogenesis do not claim to have created life, so
this seems like a straw man and ad hominem. At 10:23, James says that molecules never move toward order except
within biological entities. This is not true. Molecules move toward order within closed systems (including
biological entities). More specifically and relevantly, experiments such as the Miller-Urey experiment have
shown that complex organic molecules can and do form spontaneously in the right environments (including the
environment of the early Earth). From the description of the video—”At one point he asks for a show of hands
of fellow synthetic chemists in the (large) audience. It turns out there are a couple and he demands that they
stand up and call him a liar if anything he says isn’t true.” This happens at 19:52. It’s connected to a
specific set of claims regarding a tangential topic—not to his entire message. Also, most legitimate,
self-respecting scientists would be unlikely to make an appearance at a conference on pseudoscience. The
description of the video also says, “Truly, I’d love to hear from our materialist critics how they would
answer any of this.” However, comments are not enabled on the site. People who already hold a particular view
can easily go to the site and feel validated without understanding any of the evidence that is relevant to
scientists who are actually engaged in the origin-of-life question. James Tour is not one of those scientists.
Although he is qualified to point out that there is much that we do not understand about the specifics of
prebiotic chemistry, he is not qualified to offer a scientific opinion on evolution, and he doesn’t.

These easy-to-understand videos explain some of the evidence for abiogenesis: Can Science Explain the Origin
of Life? (7 minutes) What Was The Miller-Urey Experiment? (7.5 minutes)

There have been important developments since the time the videos were made: In March 2015, scientists
confirmed that DNA and RNA nucleotides (including uracil, cytosine, and thymine) form spontaneously in outer
space conditions (R. Marlaire, “NASA Ames Reproduces the Building Blocks of Life in Laboratory,” NASA, 3 March
2015). This is significant because Earth was bombarded by space rocks 4 billion years ago, providing an
opportunity for nucleotides to enter Earth’s liquid water. From the Miller-Urey experiment and other related
experiments, we already know that lipid bilayers, amino acids, and other complex organic molecules form
spontaneously in conditions like those of the early Earth. With RNA/DNA nucleotides added to the mix, Earth’s
oceans had all the building blocks of protocells—right before the emergence of unicellular life on Earth. In
October 2018, researchers at McMaster University started using a new technology called Planet Simulator to
study how life emerged on Earth (Paul Scott Anderson, “New technology may help solve mystery of life's
origins—How did life on Earth begin?,” EarthSky). When the researchers simulated early Earth conditions, they
observed within days the spontaneous formation of cell-like structures and nucleic acids (from nucleotides)
and the absorption of the genetic material by the cell-like structures (Emily Chung, “Canadian researchers use
new ‘planet simulator’ to probe origins of life,” CBC News, 5 Oct. 2018). They got protocells!! So far, the
protocells have not replicated themselves or used their genetic material to create proteins; i.e., they are
not “alive.” Nonetheless, they are direct evidence that protocells emerged naturally on Earth through a
process of chemical evolution. Nucleic acids made their way into lipid bilayers spontaneously; all that’s
missing (so far) is the emergence of RNA molecules that are capable of copying themselves after being absorbed
into lipid bilayers.

Abiogenesis has not been 100% proven yet (and until it is, there will be room for fundamentalists to say that
God reached down from heaven and tweaked the RNA to make protocells become alive..?), but it is a solid
hypothesis supported by solid evidence—especially in light of what is known about evolution.

Incidentally, evolution does not depend on abiogenesis (although abiogenesis is a natural extrapolation of
evolution and seems pretty likely, based on experimental evidence). Evolution is a fact, regardless of whether
abiogenesis happened.

Just like the Big Bang, and just like evolution, abiogenesis is not necessarily incompatible with a belief in
God. Of course, certain scriptural passages, if interpreted literally (which is frequently a bad idea), are
problematic. Many educated church members interpret problematic scriptures symbolically rather than literally.
