---
title: Pedicide
slug: growing-up-lds
excerpt: false
---

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v6OZj2ALkFncnImLDhtM-qy8Ihk6aX0qqJS6QimE4Bs/edit#

Pedicide, Infanticide, and Feticide pedicide the act of killing a child infanticide the act of killing a baby
feticide the act of destroying a fetus

Exodus 12:29-30: At midnight Yahweh killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of
Pharaoh sitting on his throne to the firstborn of the prisoner in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of
livestock. Pharaoh got up in the night, he, all his servants and all the Egyptians; and there was horrendous
wailing in Egypt; for there wasn’t a single house without someone dead in it. Did the first-born children
(incl. babies) do something wrong? If Abraham Lincoln killed the first-born child of every Southerner in order
to free the slaves in America, would it be moral and sensible? Would it make sense for an all-powerful being
to need to kill every first-born child in Egypt in order to free the Hebrews from bondage? Archaeological
evidence indicates that the Hebrews were never slaves of the Egyptians and that the Hebrew culture emerged
among the Canaanites in the Levant—i.e., that the account in Exodus (including the Passover) is mythical.
Numbers 5:11-27: Coercive ritual abortion. Numbers 31:15-18: Moses said to them, “Have you let all the women
live? Behold, these, on Balaam's advice, caused the people of Israel to act treacherously against the Lord in
the incident of Peor, and so the plague came among the congregation of the Lord. Now therefore, kill every
male among the little ones, and kill every woman who has known man by lying with him. But all the young girls
who have not known man by lying with him keep alive for yourselves. 2 Kings 2:23-25: Elisha left to go up to
Beit-El. As he was on his way up the road, some boys came out of the town and began making fun of him. "Go on
up, baldy! Go on up, baldy!" He looked behind him, saw them and put a curse on them in the name of Yahweh;
whereupon two female bears came out of the woods and mauled forty-two of the boys. He went on from there to
Mount Karmel and then returned to Shomron. Did Yahweh give Elisha (a “prophet”) power to curse children and
have them ripped apart by wild bears? Would a good man be so offended at being called “baldy” that he would
wield his supernatural priesthood powers to massacre 42 children? 1 Samuel 15:3: Now go and attack Amalek, and
utterly destroy all that they have, and do not spare them. But kill both man and woman, infant and nursing
child, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.’ ” Hosea 13: 4, 16: But I am Yahweh your god from the land of Egypt;
you know no god but me, and besides me there is no savior.... Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has
rebelled against Yahweh; they shall fall by the sword; their little ones shall be dashed in pieces, and their
pregnant women ripped open. Yahweh’s promised punishment for the Samaritans who “rebelled” against him (by
practicing a polytheistic form of worship, like their parents, ancestors, neighbors, etc.) is for their babies
to be “dashed in pieces” and for their “pregnant women” to be “ripped open.” Psalm 137:8–9: O daughter of
Babylon, doomed to be destroyed, blessed shall he be who repays you with what you have done to us! Blessed
shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock! The author of Psalm 137 states,
“Blessed shall be” the man who picks up little Mesopotamian babies and dashes them to pieces against the
rocks. The offense (“what you have done to us!”) of the “daughter of Babylon” was removing the Israelites from
their holy place, Jerusalem. According to the Israelites’ holy texts, the Israelites themselves had committed
more nefarious deeds (though they did not view them as such), such as exterminating numerous Canaanite peoples
in order to acquire their lands. This historical context is not particularly relevant, though: all that
matters (in evaluating the morality of this passage) is that dashing babies to pieces is wrong; threatening to
dash others’ babies to pieces is wrong; and encouraging others to dash others’ babies to pieces is wrong. This
biblical passage, like many others, reflects the vengefulness, fanaticism, and brutality of primitive human
authors. Ezekiel 9: Then he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, “Bring near the executioners of the
city, each with his destroying weapon in his hand.” And behold, six men came from the direction of the upper
gate, which faces north, each with his weapon for slaughter in his hand, and with them was a man clothed in
linen, with a writing case at his waist…. Now the glory of Yahweh had gone up from the cherub on which it
rested to the threshold of the house…. And Yahweh said to him, “Pass through the city, through Jerusalem, and
put a mark on the foreheads of the men who sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed in it.”
And to the others he said in my hearing, “Pass through the city after him, and strike. Your eye shall not
spare, and you shall show no pity. Kill old men outright, young men and maidens, little children and women,
but touch no one on whom is the mark. And begin at my sanctuary.” So they began with the elders who were
before the house. Then he said to them, “Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain. Go out.” So
they went out and struck in the city….
